                                                                                                 TÜV Rheinland Nederland B.V.




                                                                                                                                                          Certification Report
Version 2020-2




                                                                                                                                                           STSafe S300 v1.2.5




                                                                                                                  Sponsor and developer:           ST Microelectronics S.r.l.
                                                                                                                                                   Zona Industriale Marcianise SUD
                                                                                                                                                   81025 Marcianise (CE)
                                                                                                                                                   Italy


                                                                                                                  Evaluation facility:             Brightsight
                                                                                                                                                   Brassersplein 2
                                                                                                                                                   2612 CT Delft
                                                                                                                                                   The Netherlands


                                                                                                                  Report number:                   NSCIB-CC-0176780-CR

                                                                                                                  Report version:                  1

                                                                                                                  Project number:                  0176780

                                                                                                                  Author(s):                       Wouter Slegers
® TÜV, TUEV and TUV are registered trademarks. Any use or application requires prior approval.




                                                                                                                  Date:                            20 August 2020

                                                                                                                  Number of pages:                 11

                                                                                                                  Number of appendices:            0




                                                                                                                  Reproduction of this report is authorized provided the report is reproduced in its entirety.




                                                                                                 Headoffice:                        Location Leek:                   info@nl.tuv.com                   TÜV Rheinland Nederland B.V. is a
                                                                                                 Westervoortsedijk 73               Eiberkamp 10                     www.tuv.com/nl                    registered company at the Dutch
                                                                                                 NL-6827 AV Arnhem                  NL-9351 VT Leek                                                    Chamber of Commerce under
                                                                                                                                                                     Tel. +31 (0)88 888 7 888          number 27288788
                                                                                                 P.O. Box 2220                      P.O. Box 37                      Fax +31 (0)88 888 7 879
                                                                                                 NL-6802 CE Arnhem                  NL-9350 AA Leek                                                    VAT number: NL815820380B01
                                                                                                 The Netherlands                    The Netherlands                                                    IBAN: NL61DEUT0265155096
                                                                                                 Page: 2/11 of report number: NSCIB-CC-0176780-CR, dated 20 August 2020




                                                                                                 CONTENTS:

                                                                                                 Foreword                                                                  3

                                                                                                 Recognition of the certificate                                            4
                                                                                                 International recognition                                                 4
                                                                                                 European recognition                                                      4

                                                                                                 1 Executive Summary                                                       5

                                                                                                 2 Certification Results                                                   6
                                                                                                 2.1      Identification of Target of Evaluation                           6
                                                                                                 2.2      Security Policy                                                  6
                                                                                                 2.3      Assumptions and Clarification of Scope                           6
                                                                                                 2.4      Architectural Information                                        6
                                                                                                 2.5      Documentation                                                    7
                                                                                                 2.6      IT Product Testing                                               7
                                                                                                 2.7      Re-used evaluation results                                       8
                                                                                                 2.8      Evaluated Configuration                                          8
                                                                                                 2.9      Results of the Evaluation                                        8
                                                                                                 2.10     Comments/Recommendations                                         9

                                                                                                 3 Security Target                                                        10

                                                                                                 4 Definitions                                                            10

                                                                                                 5 Bibliography                                                           11
® TÜV, TUEV and TUV are registered trademarks. Any use or application requires prior approval.
                                                                                                 Page: 3/11 of report number: NSCIB-CC-0176780-CR, dated 20 August 2020




                                                                                                 Foreword
                                                                                                 The Netherlands Scheme for Certification in the Area of IT Security (NSCIB) provides a third-party
                                                                                                 evaluation and certification service for determining the trustworthiness of Information Technology (IT)
                                                                                                 security products. Under this NSCIB, TÜV Rheinland Nederland B.V. has the task of issuing
                                                                                                 certificates for IT security products, as well as for protection profiles and sites.
                                                                                                 Part of the procedure is the technical examination (evaluation) of the product, protection profile or site
                                                                                                 according to the Common Criteria assessment guidelines published by the NSCIB. Evaluations are
                                                                                                 performed by an IT Security Evaluation Facility (ITSEF) under the oversight of the NSCIB Certification
                                                                                                 Body, which is operated by TÜV Rheinland Nederland B.V. in cooperation with the Ministry of the
                                                                                                 Interior and Kingdom Relations.
                                                                                                 An ITSEF in the Netherlands is a commercial facility that has been licensed by TÜV Rheinland
                                                                                                 Nederland B.V. to perform Common Criteria evaluations; a significant requirement for such a license is
                                                                                                 accreditation to the requirements of ISO Standard 17025 “General requirements for the accreditation
                                                                                                 of calibration and testing laboratories”.
                                                                                                 By awarding a Common Criteria certificate, TÜV Rheinland Nederland B.V. asserts that the product or
                                                                                                 site complies with the security requirements specified in the associated (site) security target, or that
                                                                                                 the protection profile (PP) complies with the requirements for PP evaluation specified in the Common
                                                                                                 Criteria for Information Security Evaluation. A (site) security target is a requirements specification
                                                                                                 document that defines the scope of the evaluation activities.
                                                                                                 The consumer should review the (site) security target or protection profile, in addition to this
                                                                                                 certification report, in order to gain an understanding of any assumptions made during the evaluation,
                                                                                                 the IT product's intended environment, its security requirements, and the level of confidence (i.e., the
                                                                                                 evaluation assurance level) that the product or site satisfies the security requirements stated in the
                                                                                                 (site) security target.
                                                                                                 Reproduction of this report is authorized provided the report is reproduced in its entirety.
® TÜV, TUEV and TUV are registered trademarks. Any use or application requires prior approval.
                                                                                                 Page: 4/11 of report number: NSCIB-CC-0176780-CR, dated 20 August 2020




                                                                                                 Recognition of the certificate
                                                                                                 Presence of the Common Criteria Recognition Arrangement and SOG-IS logos on the certificate
                                                                                                 indicates that this certificate is issued in accordance with the provisions of the CCRA and the SOG-IS
                                                                                                 agreement and will be recognised by the participating nations.

                                                                                                 International recognition
                                                                                                 The CCRA has been signed by the Netherlands in May 2000 and provides mutual recognition of
                                                                                                 certificates based on the CC. Starting September 2014 the CCRA has been updated to provide mutual
                                                                                                 recognition of certificates based on cPPs (exact use) or STs with evaluation assurance components
                                                                                                 up to and including EAL2+ALC_FLR. The current list of signatory nations and approved certification
                                                                                                 schemes can be found on: http://www.commoncriteriaportal.org.

                                                                                                 European recognition
                                                                                                 The European SOGIS-Mutual Recognition Agreement (SOGIS-MRA) version 3 effective from April
                                                                                                 2010 provides mutual recognition of Common Criteria and ITSEC certificates at a basic evaluation
                                                                                                 level for all products. A higher recognition level for evaluation levels beyond EAL4 (resp. E3-basic) is
                                                                                                 provided for products related to specific technical domains. This agreement was initially signed by
                                                                                                 Finland, France, Germany, The Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom. Italy
                                                                                                 joined the SOGIS-MRA in December 2010. The current list of signatory nations, approved certification
                                                                                                 schemes and the list of technical domains for which the higher recognition applies can be found on:
                                                                                                 http://www.sogisportal.eu.
® TÜV, TUEV and TUV are registered trademarks. Any use or application requires prior approval.
                                                                                                 Page: 5/11 of report number: NSCIB-CC-0176780-CR, dated 20 August 2020




                                                                                                 1 Executive Summary
                                                                                                 This Certification Report states the outcome of the Common Criteria security evaluation of the STSafe
                                                                                                 S300 v1.2.5. The developer of the STSafe S300 v1.2.5 is ST Microelectronics S.r.l. located in
                                                                                                 Marcianise, Italy and they also act as the sponsor of the evaluation and certification. A Certification
                                                                                                 Report is intended to assist prospective consumers when judging the suitability of the IT security
                                                                                                 properties of the product for their particular requirements.
                                                                                                 STSafe S300 is a Secure element product that offers secure storage capability over the Weaver and
                                                                                                 SFA applications, intended to be used as a secure storage element by a mobile phone.
                                                                                                 The TOE has been evaluated by Brightsight B.V. located in Delft, The Netherlands. The evaluation
                                                                                                 was completed on 20 August 2020 with the approval of the ETR. The certification procedure has been
                                                                                                 conducted in accordance with the provisions of the Netherlands Scheme for Certification in the Area of
                                                                                                 IT Security [NSCIB].
                                                                                                 The scope of the evaluation is defined by the security target [ST], which identifies assumptions made
                                                                                                 during the evaluation, the intended environment for the STSafe S300 v1.2.5, the security
                                                                                                 requirements, and the level of confidence (evaluation assurance level) at which the product is
                                                                                                 intended to satisfy the security requirements. Consumers of the STSafe S300 v1.2.5 are advised to
                                                                                                 verify that their own environment is consistent with the security target, and to give due consideration to
                                                                                                 the comments, observations and recommendations in this certification report.
                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                 The results documented in the evaluation technical report [ETR] for this product provides sufficient
                                                                                                 evidence that the TOE meets the EAL4 augmented (EAL4+) assurance requirements for the evaluated
                                                                                                 security functionality. This assurance level is augmented with ALC_DVS.2 (Sufficiency of security
                                                                                                 measures) and AVA_VAN.5 (Advanced methodical vulnerability analysis).
                                                                                                 The evaluation was conducted using the Common Methodology for Information Technology Security
                                                                                                 Evaluation, Version 3.1 Revision 5 [CEM] for conformance to the Common Criteria for Information
                                                                                                 Technology Security Evaluation, version 3.1 Revision 5 [CC].
                                                                                                 TÜV Rheinland Nederland B.V., as the NSCIB Certification Body, declares that the evaluation meets
                                                                                                 all the conditions for international recognition of Common Criteria Certificates and that the product will
                                                                                                 be listed on the NSCIB Certified Products list. It should be noted that the certification results only apply
                                                                                                 to the specific version of the product as evaluated.
® TÜV, TUEV and TUV are registered trademarks. Any use or application requires prior approval.




                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                  The Evaluation Technical Report contains information proprietary to the developer and/or the
                                                                                                 evaluator, and is not releasable for public review.
                                                                                                 Page: 6/11 of report number: NSCIB-CC-0176780-CR, dated 20 August 2020




                                                                                                 2 Certification Results
                                                                                                 2.1     Identification of Target of Evaluation
                                                                                                 The Target of Evaluation (TOE) for this evaluation is the STSafe S300 v1.2.5 from ST Microelectronics
                                                                                                 S.r.l. located in Marcianise, Italy.
                                                                                                 The TOE is comprised of the following main components:

                                                                                                                     Name                                                 Version
                                                                                                  Hardware          ST33G1M2 (maskset K8H0A)                              Version F
                                                                                                  Software          Firmware                                              Version A
                                                                                                                    Neslib library                                        V6.3.4
                                                                                                                    Storekeeper                                           V1.0.9
                                                                                                                    STSafe OS and weaver applet                           V1.2.5


                                                                                                 To ensure secure usage a set of guidance documents is provided together with the STSafe S300
                                                                                                 v1.2.5. Details can be found in section 2.5 of this report.
                                                                                                 For a detailed and precise description of the TOE lifecycle refer to the [ST], chapter 4.

                                                                                                 2.2     Security Policy
                                                                                                 STSafe S300 is a Secure element product that offers secure storage capability over the Weaver and
                                                                                                 SFA applications, intended to be used as a secure storage element by a mobile phone.
                                                                                                 The TOE provides two different applications for accessing two separate secure memories. The SFA is
                                                                                                 the default application; SFA application is operational only on logical channel 0, while Weaver
                                                                                                 application is operational only on logical channel 1.

                                                                                                 2.3     Assumptions and Clarification of Scope

                                                                                                 2.3.1    Assumptions
                                                                                                 The assumptions defined in the Security Target are not covered by the TOE itself. These aspects lead
® TÜV, TUEV and TUV are registered trademarks. Any use or application requires prior approval.




                                                                                                 to specific Security Objectives to be fulfilled by the TOE-Environment. Detailed information on these
                                                                                                 security objectives that must be fulfilled by the TOE environment can be found in section 8.2 of the
                                                                                                 [ST].

                                                                                                 2.3.2    Clarification of scope
                                                                                                 The evaluation did not reveal any threats to the TOE that are not countered by the evaluated security
                                                                                                 functions of the product.

                                                                                                 2.4     Architectural Information
                                                                                                 The TOE is a Secure element product that offers secure storage capability over the Weaver and SFA
                                                                                                 applications, intended to be used as a secure storage element by a mobile phone. The product offers
                                                                                                 also an additional functionality called “Firmware Upgrade OS” that allows Operational OS firmware
                                                                                                 update.
                                                                                                 The TOE is a composition of a Java Card OS and the SFA and Weaver applications, with the
                                                                                                 ST33G1M2 IC platform (including Neslib and Storekeeper).
                                                                                                 The logical architecture of the TOE can be depicted as follows (from [ST]):
                                                                                                 Page: 7/11 of report number: NSCIB-CC-0176780-CR, dated 20 August 2020




                                                                                                 Figure 1. Logical architecture of the TOE

                                                                                                 2.5     Documentation
                                                                                                 The following documentation is provided with the product by the developer to the customer:

                                                                                                   Name                                                                   Version   Date
                                                                                                  STSafe S300 – Preparative Procedure                                     Rev C     17 June 2020
                                                                                                  STSafe S300 - Operational User Guidance                                 Rev D     17 June 2020



                                                                                                 2.6     IT Product Testing
                                                                                                 Testing (depth, coverage, functional tests, independent testing): The evaluators examined the
® TÜV, TUEV and TUV are registered trademarks. Any use or application requires prior approval.




                                                                                                 developer’s testing activities documentation and verified that the developer has met their testing
                                                                                                 responsibilities.

                                                                                                 2.6.1    Testing approach and depth
                                                                                                 The developer has performed extensive testing on functional specification, subsystem and module
                                                                                                 level. All parameter choices have been addressed at least once. All boundary cases identified have
                                                                                                 been tested explicitly, and additionally the near-boundary conditions have been covered
                                                                                                 probabilistically. The testing was largely automated using industry standard and proprietary test suites.
                                                                                                 Test scripts were extensively used to verify that the functions return the expected values.
                                                                                                 The underlying hardware and crypto-library test results are extendable to composite evaluations, as
                                                                                                 the underlying platform is operated according to its guidance and the composite evaluation
                                                                                                 requirements are met.
                                                                                                 For the testing performed by the evaluators, the developer has provided samples and a test
                                                                                                 environment. The evaluators have reproduced a selection of the developer tests, as well as a small
                                                                                                 number of test cases designed by the evaluator.

                                                                                                 2.6.2    Independent Penetration Testing
                                                                                                 The methodical analysis performed was conducted along the following steps:
                                                                                                 Page: 8/11 of report number: NSCIB-CC-0176780-CR, dated 20 August 2020




                                                                                                  When evaluating the evidence in the classes ASE, ADV and AGD the evaluator considers whether
                                                                                                   potential vulnerabilities can already be identified due to the TOE type and/or specified behaviour in
                                                                                                   such an early stage of the evaluation.
                                                                                                  For ADV_IMP a thorough implementation representation review has performed on the TOE. During
                                                                                                   this attack oriented analysis the protection of the TOE was analysed using the knowledge gained
                                                                                                   from all previous evaluation classes. This results in the identification of (additional) potential
                                                                                                   vulnerabilities. For this analysis has been performed according to the attack methods in the JIL
                                                                                                   Application of Attack Potential. An important source for assurance in this step is the technical report
                                                                                                   [HW-ETRfC] of the underlying platform.
                                                                                                  All potential vulnerabilities were analysed using the knowledge gained from all evaluation classes
                                                                                                   and information from the public domain. A judgment was made on how to assure that these potential
                                                                                                   vulnerabilities are not exploitable. The potential vulnerabilities were addressed by penetration
                                                                                                   testing, a guidance update or in other ways that were deemed appropriate.
                                                                                                 Two perturbation attacks and one side channel attack was performed, for a total of four weeks of
                                                                                                 penetration testing.

                                                                                                 2.6.3    Test Configuration
                                                                                                 The TOE is available in one configuration only. All testing was performed on the TOE as defined in the
                                                                                                 [ST].

                                                                                                 2.6.4    Testing Results
                                                                                                 The testing activities, including configurations, procedures, test cases, expected results and observed
                                                                                                 results are summarised in the [ETR], with references to the documents containing the full details.
                                                                                                 The developer’s tests and the independent functional tests produced the expected results, giving
                                                                                                 assurance that the TOE behaves as specified in its [ST] and functional specification.
                                                                                                 No exploitable vulnerabilities were found with the independent penetration tests.
                                                                                                 The algorithmic security level of cryptographic functionality has not been rated in this certification
                                                                                                 process, but the current consensus on the algorithmic security level in the open domain, i.e. from the
                                                                                                 current best cryptanalytic attacks published, has been taken into account.
                                                                                                 The algorithmic security level exceeds 100 bits for all evaluated cryptographic functionality as required
® TÜV, TUEV and TUV are registered trademarks. Any use or application requires prior approval.




                                                                                                 for high attack potential (AVA_VAN.5).
                                                                                                 For composite evaluations, please consult the [ETRfC] for details.

                                                                                                 2.7     Re-used evaluation results
                                                                                                 There is no re-use of evaluation results in this certification.
                                                                                                 Sites involved in the development and production of the hardware platform were re-used by
                                                                                                 composition.
                                                                                                 There has been extensive re-use of the ALC aspects for the sites involved in the development and
                                                                                                 production of the software part of the TOE, by use of one Site Technical Audit Re-use report
                                                                                                 approaches.
                                                                                                 No sites has been visited as part of this evaluation.

                                                                                                 2.8     Evaluated Configuration
                                                                                                 The TOE is defined uniquely by its name and version number STSafe S300 v1.2.5.

                                                                                                 2.9     Results of the Evaluation
                                                                                                 The evaluation lab documented their evaluation results in the [ETR] which references an ASE
                                                                                                 Intermediate Report and other evaluator documents. To support composite evaluations according to
                                                                                                 [CCDB-2007-09-01] a derived document [ETRfC] was provided and approved. This document
                                                                                                 Page: 9/11 of report number: NSCIB-CC-0176780-CR, dated 20 August 2020




                                                                                                 provides details of the TOE evaluation that have to be considered when this TOE is used as platform
                                                                                                 in a composite evaluation.
                                                                                                 The verdict of each claimed assurance requirement is “Pass”.
                                                                                                 Based on the above evaluation results the evaluation lab concluded the STSafe S300 v1.2.5, to be CC
                                                                                                 Part 2 conformant, CC Part 3 conformant, and to meet the requirements of EAL 4 augmented with
                                                                                                 ALC_DVS.2 and AVA_VAN.5. This implies that the product satisfies the security requirements
                                                                                                 specified in Security Target [ST].

                                                                                                 2.10 Comments/Recommendations
                                                                                                 The user guidance as outlined in section 2.5 contains necessary information about the usage of the
                                                                                                 TOE.
                                                                                                 In addition all aspects of assumptions, threats and policies as outlined in the Security Target not
                                                                                                 covered by the TOE itself need to be fulfilled by the operational environment of the TOE.
                                                                                                 The customer or user of the product shall consider the results of the certification within his system risk
                                                                                                 management process. In order for the evolution of attack methods and techniques to be covered, he
                                                                                                 should define the period of time until a re-assessment for the TOE is required and thus requested from
                                                                                                 the sponsor of the certificate.
                                                                                                 The strength of the cryptographic algorithms and protocols was not rated in the course of this
                                                                                                 evaluation. This specifically applies to the following proprietary or non-standard algorithms, protocols
                                                                                                 and implementations: weaver protocol.
® TÜV, TUEV and TUV are registered trademarks. Any use or application requires prior approval.
                                                                                                 Page: 10/11 of report number: NSCIB-CC-0176780-CR, dated 20 August 2020




                                                                                                 3 Security Target

                                                                                                 The STSafe S300 Security Target, Rev. F, 31 July 2020 [ST] is included here by reference.
                                                                                                 Please note that for the need of publication a public version [ST-lite] has been created and verified
                                                                                                 according to [ST-SAN].



                                                                                                 4 Definitions

                                                                                                 This list of Acronyms and the glossary of terms contains elements that are not already defined by the
                                                                                                 CC or CEM:
                                                                                                 IT                   Information Technology
                                                                                                 ITSEF                IT Security Evaluation Facility
                                                                                                 JIL                  Joint Interpretation Library
                                                                                                 NSCIB                Netherlands Scheme for Certification in the area of IT security
                                                                                                 PP                   Protection Profile
                                                                                                 TOE                  Target of Evaluation
® TÜV, TUEV and TUV are registered trademarks. Any use or application requires prior approval.
                                                                                                 Page: 11/11 of report number: NSCIB-CC-0176780-CR, dated 20 August 2020




                                                                                                 5 Bibliography

                                                                                                 This section lists all referenced documentation used as source material in the compilation of this
                                                                                                 report:
                                                                                                 [CC]                 Common Criteria for Information Technology Security Evaluation, Parts I, II and III,
                                                                                                                      Version 3.1 Revision 5, April 2017.
                                                                                                 [CEM]                Common Methodology for Information Technology Security Evaluation, Version 3.1
                                                                                                                      Revision 5, April 2017.
                                                                                                 [ETR]                Evaluation Technical Report STSafe S300 v1.2.5, 20-RPT-640, Version 4.0, Issue
                                                                                                                      17 August 2020.
                                                                                                 [ETRfC]              ETR for Composite Evaluation STSafe S300 v1.2.5, 20-RPT-703, Version 3.0,
                                                                                                                      Issue 17 August 2020.
                                                                                                 [HW-CERT]            Rapport de certification ANSSI-CC-2020/22 ST33G1M2 C01 including optional
                                                                                                                      cryptographic library NesLib and optional technology MIFARE4Mobile, v29.2
                                                                                                 [HW-ETRfC]           Evaluation Technical Report for composite evaluation – Project: ASTIM /
                                                                                                                      ST33G1M2 C01 – Reference ASTIM_ETRLite, v6.0
                                                                                                 [HW-ST]              ST33G1M2 C01 – Security target for composition, Rev C01.3
                                                                                                 [NSCIB]              Netherlands Scheme for Certification in the Area of IT Security, Version 2.5, 28
                                                                                                                      March 2019.
                                                                                                 [ST]                 STSafe S300 Security Target, Rev. F, 31 July 2020.
                                                                                                 [ST-lite]            STSafe S300 Securirty Target Lite, Rev. A, 31 July
                                                                                                 [ST-SAN]             ST sanitising for publication, CC Supporting Document CCDB-2006-04-004, April
                                                                                                                      2006.


                                                                                                 (This is the end of this report).
® TÜV, TUEV and TUV are registered trademarks. Any use or application requires prior approval.
